Keep a diary of what makes you feel like you want to, including events, thoughts and feelings you have. This will help you to avoid or deal with those triggers before you self-harm.
Your stress, no matter what the root cause, can be alleviated by making a few tweaks to your lifestyle. Wake up earlier and meditate. Read books that make you feel positive and inspired. Cut down on sugar and processed food. Do one thing a week that’s just for you. Get out and walk in the countryside. Take your friends, but don’t take your phones
Tell them that your only goal is to make things better. This is especially important if your family can be gossipy and tends to take sides. If you communicate your intentions genuinely, this may help them stop from being a bit vindictive and make them adopt your peaceful goal as well.
Seek real help. These dark thoughts must be treated and sometimes the best medicine is to seek professional help through counseling, or for an extreme case, by calling Lifeline “There is a way to come out the other side, but you have to put aside your pride and seek help” Please don’t become another victim of suicide by doing nothing..
Everyone deserves a second chance. Start by telling your toxic friends how you feel. Give them a chance to change with the new you. If they refuse, take a break from them for a while. Ask yourself whether you want them in your life long-term.
It’s scary to have thoughts of suicide or hear that someone you can care about has thoughts of suicide. Thoughts of suicide don’t mean that someone will end their life, but it’s a sign that they need extra help or support. If you have thoughts of suicide, it’s important to talk with your doctor or mental health service provider. If you’re supporting someone else, encourage them to seek help.
If you have depression, especially if it is severe, it’s a good idea to have some form of face-to-face psychological (talking) therapy. Counselling or psychotherapy can help you with your thinking patterns and anxiety, problem-solving skills and self-esteem, among other things. Psychological therapy from a trained professional can help you recover and can reduce the chances of future bouts of depression. A number of psychotherapy approaches have been found to be helpful with depression, including cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). You can ask your GP to recommend someone.